
Git is a distributed version control system.Few helpful git commands.


$git config --list

This command display the current user configuration for git such as user name and configured email.

Git configuration set at three different level

	1. System level
	2. Global level
	3. Local level



$git --version

This command will display the installed git version on your system.


$git add

	This command is used to add a file that is in working directory to the staging area.

$git commit

	This command is used to add all files that are staged to the local repository.

$git push

	This command is used to add all committed files of local repository to remote repository.

$git fetch

	This command is used to get files from the remote repository to the local repository but not into the working directory.

$git pull

	This command is used to get files from remote repository to directly into working directory. It is equivalent to a git fetch and git merge.

$git merge

	This command is used to get files from the local repository to the working directory.

 
$git log

	This command will provide all commit history with comments provided at the time of commit. To execute this command you should be in git repo

	
$git commit -m "Message"

	This command used to commit the staged file to commit in working directory. Added text message will be supplied as commit message for future reference. 

$git status 

	This command will show the status of working directory. Whether modification made and staged or not staged and committed or not committed.

$git remote -v

	This command will show all remote repository connections.It will list all urls of remote repo with which we have connections.

 
$git push -u origin

	This command will push local repo content to remote repo
	This will require token generation from remote branch for authentication.

$git remote add origin <url of remote server repo>

	This command will add the remote server repository as origin to local working directory

$git remote -v

	This command display origin source for fetch and push

$git branch -M main

	This command will create main branch in local repo which can be pushed to remote server repo at later stage
